# Discusssion Cannon II 

### Review of Meditations on Moloch

Perliminarieis to know: 
Nick Bostrom 

**Part 1** Introducing the Beast 

In Part I, the essay situates the main issue/character at play Moloch by illustrating him through a poem and multipolar traps that exist within society. 

Allen Ginsber's Poem on Moloch: the essay starts off with a poem that Ginberg wrote in response to C.S Lewis' question "what does it? Earth coulb be fair, and all men glad and wise. Instead we have prisons, smokestacks, asylums...sphinix of cement...eats up their imagination?...) The poem responds "moloch does it"

This part characterises the theme of the essay by introducing us to Moloch -- the humanized version of civilization that we can almost "see". 

Using Bostrom's example of a dictatorless dystopia, Alexander introduces lack of strong coordination mechanisms. From a god's-eye-view (gev), we can optimize systems (especially ones filled with hardships with simple agreements, however, no agenet within the system is able to "effect the transition without great risk to themselves". 

To further illustrate these coordiation issues, Alexander uses 10 real-world examples of ***multipolar traps***. 
 - The Prisoner's Dilemma, Dollar Auctions,
 - Fish-Farming Story (one sneaky farmer will find a way to not pay for treating the shared pond, and the entire system follows), 
 - The Malthusian Trap (rats on an island are happy(play music) until resources start being deplited by overpopulation becoming hard to exist, let alone play music), 
 - The Two-Income Trap (having a second job becomes the norm, without increasing quality of life if everyone does it), 
 - Agriculture is a less enjoyable way of livng, but we overpopulated so we need it.
 - Arms Race - if they have nuclear weapons, we have to have one too... just to be safe. Leading to heavy overspending of budgets that could be reduced signifciantly 
 - Cancer - only certain human cells overpopulating killing the host itslef
 - the "race to the bottom" - politics being pushed toward being competitive than optimal for development of the society it leads 

Also other category of multipolar traps where competition is regulated by an eterior source, i.e. social stigms. 

- Education - current methods are bad, but there is social signaling at play that perpetrates the system forward
- Science - funding reserch, peer-reviews, and statistical signficance tests are flawed, but rigour reduces the incentives a scientist gets from the prev. mentioned methods
- Goverment Corruption
- Congress - "From a god’s-eye-view, every Congressperson ought to think only of the good of the nation. From within the system, you do what gets you elected."

**Part 2** Questioning our Motives 
In this part Scott questions why as evolved and cognicent humans we fall to these traps. Answer: incentives hard-coded. And expands on why it's hard to switch these incentives...

Due to these competitons everyone's "relative status is about the same as before, but everyone’s absolute status is worse than before." Incentives drive us collectively and they're built in analogy of terrain to determine the shape of the river. Although building canals by alterning terrains is possible, it's hard nonetheless. Incentives are hard to change -- especially from the hard coded ones of humanity. It's because of this incentives that things like Vega that doesn't optimize civilization, but "exists because of a quick in domaminergic reward circuit". 

**Part 3** 

Well if everything seems rather bleek, what holds us from our incentives charging us rapidly downhill? "Why do things not degerenarte..." Three basic reasons to the slowed, but inevitable, downfall. 
1. Excess Resources - we haven't reached the critical breaking point the Mathusalan rats experienced yet. 
2. Physical Limitations - there's literal physical limits to how far we can run downhill (eg. #of babies a woman can bear)
3. Utility Maximiation - "We’ve been thinking in terms of preserving values versus winning competitions, and expecting optimizing for the latter to destroy the former." However, fulfilling utilites sometimes needs values to be optimized - although the equilibriums is fragile. eg. CSR to be a good firm. Greed doesn't bear capitalism, capitalism bears greed in people...  
